Prow workflow docs (#647)
kyma-project/community: docs/contributing/04-prow-workflow.md

---
title: Prow workflow
---

This document describes the Prow workflow that we use across all Kyma repositories. This includes basic principles, explanations, and commands that interact with [@kyma-bot](https://github.com/kyma-bot).

Prow is a Kubernetes-based CI/CD system.
In addition to job execution, Prow provides GitHub automation in the form of policy enforcement, ChatOps through the `/foo` style commands, and automatic merging of pull requests (PRs). The Prow bot checks if issues have the required labels assigned, automatically assigns the labels to pull requests,
ensures that pull requests follow the two-person approval flow, automatically merges PRs with approved state, and many more.

> Prow defines the ownership of a repository and its directories based on the mandatory OWNERS file and the optional OWNER_ALIASES file. Read the [OWNERS file](#owners-file) and [OWNER_ALIASES file](#owner_aliases-file) sections to learn more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prow defines the ownership of a repository and its directories based on the mandatory OWNERS file and the optional OWNER_ALIASES file. Read the [OWNERS file](#owners-file) and [OWNER_ALIASES file](#owner-aliases-file) sections to learn more.
```

Reviewer: ^ because the link doesn't work

> Prow defines the ownership of a repository and its directories based on the mandatory OWNERS file and the optional OWNER_ALIASES file. Read the [OWNERS file](#owners-file) and [OWNER_ALIASES file](#owner-aliases-file) sections to learn more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prow defines the ownership of a repository and its directories based on the mandatory OWNERS file and the optional OWNER_ALIASES file. Read the [OWNERS file](#owners-file) and [OWNER_ALIASES file](#owner_aliases-file) sections to learn more.
```

```yaml
reviewers:
  - githubUser1
  - githubUser2
  - githubUserN 
approvers:
  - githubUser1
  - githubUser2
  - githubUserN
labels: # optional   
  - label1
  - label2
```

Having the same set of reviewers and approvers is considered a bad practice and should be avoided!
- Reviewers look for general code quality, correctness, sane software engineering, style, etc.
- Approvers look for holistic acceptance criteria, including dependencies to other features, forwards/backwards compatibility, API and flag definitions, etc.

When a person is in both reviewers and approvers groups, their approving review marks the PR as `approved`, which skips the requirement for a second review and immediately allows the PR to be merged.

You can use multiple OWNERS files across the entire repository to diversify the ownership of specific directories between multiple people.

For more information, refer to the [Kubernetes documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/guide/owners.md) regarding the OWNERS file as well as the [ANNOUNCEMENTS.md](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/blob/master/prow/ANNOUNCEMENTS.md) file in the `kubernetes/test-infra` repository.

> ## OWNERS_ALIASES file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## OWNER_ALIASES file
```

---
title: Prow workflow
---

This document describes the Prow workflow that we use across all Kyma repositories. This includes basic principles, explanations, and commands that interact with [@kyma-bot](https://github.com/kyma-bot).

> Prow is a Kubernetes-based CI/CD system. Jobs can be triggered by various types of events and report their status to many services.

Reviewer: ^ This sentence doesn't bring any value for the reader

In addition to job execution, Prow provides GitHub automation in the form of policy enforcement, ChatOps through the `/foo` style commands, and automatic PR merging.

Prow enforces strict ownership policies based on the OWNERS files that reside on each organisation repository.

> The Prow bot checks if issues have the required labels assigned, automatically assigns the labels to pull requests,

Reviewer: This sentence would fit better in the previous paragraph where you explain the Prow features.

ensures that pull requests follow the two-person approval flow, automatically merges PRs with approved state, and many more.

> You can find the configuration of the production Prow instance in the [`test-infra/prow`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/tree/main/prow) directory.

Reviewer: I'd join this sentence with the next one.

If you see any misbehavior in Prow, [create an issue](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/issues/new) in the `test-infra` repository, or contact the repository maintainers.

## OWNERS file

The OWNERS file is the Prow feature that allows you to create the ownership structure across the entire repository.
This file consists of the list of approvers, reviewers, and labels.

The basic structure of this file is as follows:
```yaml
reviewers:
  - githubUser1
  - githubUser2
  - githubUserN 
approvers:
  - githubUser1
  - githubUser2
  - githubUserN
labels: # optional   
  - label1
  - label2
```

Having the same set of reviewers and approvers is considered a bad practice and should be avoided!
- Reviewers look for general code quality, correctness, sane software engineering, style, etc.

> - Approvers look for holistic acceptance criteria, including dependencies with other features, forwards/backwards compatibility, API and flag definitions, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Approvers look for holistic acceptance criteria, including dependencies to other features, forwards/backwards compatibility, API and flag definitions, etc.
```

> When a person is in both reviewers and approvers groups, their approving review marks the PR as `approved`, which skips the requirement for a second review and immediately allows the PR to be merged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

When a person is in both reviewers and approvers groups, their approving review marks the PR as `approved`, which skips the requirement for a second review and immediately allows the PR to be merged.
```

Reviewer: This sentence should not be included in the bullet point

## Commands

Prow provides GitHub automations and ChatOps using `/foo` styled slash-commands. You can use these commands by adding a comment under a GitHub issue or pull request.

This is a basic set of commands you need to know to manage issues and PRs in Kyma:

|Command|Example|Description|Used by|Plugin|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|`/close`|`/close`|Close an issue or PR.|Authors and members of the organization |lifecycle|
|`/reopen`|`/reopen`|Reopen an issue or PR.|Authors and members of the organization |lifecycle|
|`/[remove-]lifecycle [stale/frozen/rotten/active]`| `/lifecycle frozen`, `/remove-lifecycle stale`|Command used to operate on lifecycle labels respected by [Kyma Stale Bot](https://github.com/apps/kyma-stale-bot).|anyone|lifecycle|
|`/[un][remove-]hold [cancel]`|`/hold`, `/unhold`, `/remove-hold` `/hold cancel`|Adds or removes the `do-not-merge/hold` label used to indicate that the PR should not be automatically merged.|anyone|hold|
|`/auto-cc`|`/auto-cc`|Requests review based on the OWNERS files if the reviewers were not assigned.|anyone|blunderbuss|

> |`/[un]cc [@username]`|`/cc @Ressetkk`, `/uncc`|Requests review from the specific person, or yourself.|anyone|assign|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`/[un]cc [@username]`|`/cc @Ressetkk`, `/uncc`|Requests review from the specific person or assign yourself.|anyone|assign|
```

|`/[un]assign [@username]`|`/assign` `/unassign @Ressetkk`|(Un)assigns a person from an issue or PR.|anyone|assign|

> |`/[remove-](area,kind,priority,label,language) [name]`|`/area prow`, `/label Epic`, `/kind bug` `/remove-area ci`|Applies or removes a label from one of the recognized types of labels.|Anyone can trigger this command on issues and PRs. `triage/accepted` can only be added by org members. Restricted labels are only able to be added by teams and users in their configuration.|label|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`/[remove-](area,kind,priority,label,language) [name]`|`/area prow`, `/label Epic`, `/kind bug` `/remove-area ci`|Applies or removes a label from one of the recognized types of labels.|Anyone can trigger this command on issues and PRs. `triage/accepted` is a restricted label and can only be added by organization members. Only users that belong to at least one of the configured teams can add and modify the restricted labels.|label|
```

Reviewer: ^ maybe something like that then? 🤔

Author: `...can add and modify the restricted labels.` should be `...can use the restricted labels.` because it's up to the Prow maintainers to add the restricted labels to the plugin configuration

Reviewer: I'm fine with your suggestion, changed 🙂

---
title: Prow workflow
---

This document describes the Prow workflow that we use across all Kyma repositories. This includes basic principles, explanations and commands that interact with [@kyma-bot](https://github.com/kyma-bot).

Prow is a Kubernetes based CI/CD system. Jobs can be triggered by various types of events and report their status to many services.
In addition to job execution, Prow provides GitHub automation in the form of policy enforcement, ChatOps via `/foo` style commands, and automatic PR merging.

Prow enforces strict ownership policies based on the OWNERS files that reside on each organisation repository.
The Prow bot user checks if the Issue has required labels assigned, automatically assigns labels to the Pull Requests,
ensures that the Pull Request follows the 2-person approval flow, automatically merges PRs with approved state and many more.

> The configuration of production Prow instance can be found under kyma-project/test-infra [prow directory](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/tree/main/prow).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the configuration of the production Prow instance in the [`test-infra/prow`](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/tree/main/prow) directory.
```

> If you see any unusual behaviour in Prow, [raise an Issue](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/issues/new) in the test-infra repository, or contact kyma-project/test-infra maintainers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you see any misbehavior in Prow, [create an issue](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/issues/new) in the `test-infra` repository, or contact the repository maintainers.
```

## OWNERS

> The OWNERS file is the Prow feature that allows you to create an ownership structure across the entire repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OWNERS file is the Prow feature that allows you to create the ownership structure across the entire repository.
```

> This file consists of the list of `approvers`, `reviewers`, and `labels`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file consists of the list of approvers, reviewers, and labels.
```

The basic structure of this file is as follows:
```yaml
reviewers:
  - githubUser1
  - githubUser2
  - githubUserN 
approvers:
  - githubUser1
  - githubUser2
  - githubUserN
labels: # optional   
  - label1
  - label2
```

Having the same set of reviewers and approvers is considered a bad practice and should be avoided!

> Reviewers look for general code quality, correctness, sane software engineering, style, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Reviewers look for general code quality, correctness, sane software engineering, style, etc.
```

> Approvers look for holistic acceptance criteria, including dependencies with other features, forwards/backwards compatibility, API and flag definitions, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Approvers look for holistic acceptance criteria, including dependencies with other features, forwards/backwards compatibility, API and flag definitions, etc.
```

Reviewer: ^ for better readability

> When a person is in both reviewers and approvers groups, their Approving review is also considered as an approve and marks the PR as `approved`. That behaviour skips the requirement for a second review and immediately allows the PR to be merged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a person is in both reviewers and approvers groups, their approving review marks the PR as `approved`, which skips the requirement for a second review and immediately allows the PR to be merged.
```

You can use multiple OWNERS files across the entire repository to diversify the ownership of specific directories between multiple people.

For more information, refer to the [Kubernetes documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/guide/owners.md) regarding OWNERS file as well as the [ANNOUNCEMENTS.md](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/blob/master/prow/ANNOUNCEMENTS.md) file on the kubernetes/test-infra repository.

> ## OWNERS_ALIASES

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## OWNERS_ALIASES file
```

> The OWNERS_ALIASES file contains a list of aliases that can be used in the OWNERS files, instead of the GitHub usernames.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OWNERS_ALIASES file contains a list of aliases that can be used in the OWNERS files instead of the GitHub usernames.
```

It is useful when the same set of people is responsible for bigger amount of directories in the repo.

The example structure of this file is as follows:
```yaml
aliases:
  owners-group:
    - githubUser1
    - githubUser2
    - githubUserN
```

For more information, refer to the official [Kubernetes documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/guide/owners.md#owners_aliases).

## Code review process

Since in Kyma Prow is responsible for ensuring the review process, our flow is the same as in the official [Kubernetes documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/guide/owners.md#the-code-review-process).

## Commands

> Prow provides GitHub automations and ChatOps using `/foo` styled slash-commands. You can use these command by creating a comment under the GitHub Issue or Pull Request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prow provides GitHub automations and ChatOps using `/foo` styled slash-commands. You can use these commands by adding a comment under a GitHub issue or pull request.
```

> This flow can be extended by various built-in plugins and can be further extended with external integrations with Prow API that it provides. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer: I know that you know a lot and that you want to share knowledge, but the reader doesn't need this information here 🙂

> As part of the workflow every developer needs to know a basic set of commands that they can use for managing Issues or Pull Requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Prow plugins implement huge set of command everyone, or specific people can use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Below there is a basic set of commands that need to be known by every person that wants to contribute to Kyma:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a basic set of commands that you need to contribute to Kyma:
```

> |command|example|description|used by|plugin|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Command|Example|Description|Used by|Plugin type|
```

|---|---|---|---|---|
|`/close`|`/close`|Close an issue or PR.|authors or members of organisation|lifecycle|
|`/reopen`|`/reopen`|Reopen an issue or PR.|authors or members of organisation|lifecycle|

> |`/[remove-]lifecycle [stale/frozen/rotten/active]`| `/lifecycle frozen`, `/remove-lifecycle stale`|Command used to operate on lifecycle labels respected by [kyma-stale-bot](https://github.com/apps/kyma-stale-bot).|anyone|lifecycle|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`/[remove-]lifecycle [stale/frozen/rotten/active]`| `/lifecycle frozen`, `/remove-lifecycle stale`|Command used to operate on lifecycle labels respected by [Kyma Stale Bot](https://github.com/apps/kyma-stale-bot).|anyone|lifecycle|
```

|`/[un][remove-]hold [cancel]`|`/hold`, `/unhold`, `/remove-hold` `/hold cancel`|Adds or removes the `do-not-merge/hold` Label which is used to indicate that the PR should not be automatically merged.|anyone|hold|

> |`/auto-cc`|`/auto-cc`|Request reviews based on the OWNERS files if those were not assigned.|anyone|blunderbuss|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`/auto-cc`|`/auto-cc`|Requests review based on the OWNERS files if the reviewers were not assigned.|anyone|blunderbuss|
```

Reviewer: ... or you can change it to active voice: `Use it to request review...`

> |`/[un]cc [@username]`|`/cc @Ressetkk`, `/uncc`|Request review from the specific person, or yourself.|anyone|assign|

Reviewer: Can I really request a review from myself? 🤔 
You can also use active voice: `Use it to request review...`

> |`/[un]assign [@username]`|`/assign` `/unassign @Ressetkk`|(Un)assign a person from issue or PR.|anyone|assign|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`/[un]assign [@username]`|`/assign` `/unassign @Ressetkk`|(Un)assigns a person from an issue or PR.|anyone|assign|
```

Reviewer: Same comment about active voice as above

> |`/[remove-](area,kind,priority,label,language) [name]`|`/area prow`, `/label Epic`, `/kind bug` `/remove-area ci`|Applies or removes a label from one of the recognized types of labels.|Anyone can trigger this command on issues and PRs. `triage/accepted` can only be added by org members. Restricted labels are only able to be added by teams and users in their configuration.|label|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`/[remove-](area,kind,priority,label,language) [name]`|`/area prow`, `/label Epic`, `/kind bug` `/remove-area ci`|Applies or removes a label from one of the recognized types of labels.| Anyone can trigger this command on issues and PRs. `triage/accepted` can only be added by organization members. Only teams can add the restricted labels.|label|
```

Reviewer: `... and users in their configuration` - what does this part mean?
Also, what are the restricted labels?

Author: Based on the Prow documentation
```go
// RestrictedLabels allows to configure labels that can only be modified
	// by users that belong to at least one of the configured teams. The key
	// defines to which repos this applies and can be `*` for global, an org
	// or a repo in org/repo notation.
	RestrictedLabels map[string][]RestrictedLabel `json:"restricted_labels,omitempty"`
```

> |`/test (all,test-name)`|`/test all`, `/test pre-test-infra-build`|Manually starts a/all automatically triggered test job(s). Lists all possible job(s) when no jobs/an invalid job are specified.|anyone|trigger|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`/test (all,test-name)`|`/test all`, `/test pre-test-infra-build`|- Manually starts all automatically triggered test jobs. <br> - Lists all possible jobs when no jobs or invalid jobs are specified.|anyone|trigger|
```

> |`/test ?`|`/test ?`|List available test job(s) for a trusted PR.|anyone|trigger|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`/test ?`|`/test ?`|Lists available test jobs for a trusted PR.|anyone|trigger|
```

|`/retest`|`/retest`|Rerun test jobs that have failed.|anyone|trigger|

> For more information about which commands are available for Kyma Prow instance, please refer to the [Command Help](https://status.build.kyma-project.io/command-help) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about commands available for the Kyma Prow instance, refer to the [Command Help](https://status.build.kyma-project.io/command-help) page.
```
